docs/discord-bot/PROGRESS.md, before:

# Discord Bot Implementation Progress

**Last Updated**: November 23, 2025
**Status**: Phase 1 Complete ✅ | Phase 2 Ready to Start

---

## 📊 Overall Progress: 18% Complete (Phase 1 of 6)

### Timeline
- **Phase 1**: ✅ Complete (Week 1-2)
- **Phase 2**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 2-3)
- **Phase 3**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 3-4)
- **Phase 4**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 4-5)
- **Phase 5**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 5-6)
- **Phase 6**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 6)

---

## ✅ Phase 1: Core Package Setup (COMPLETE)

**Duration**: November 22-23, 2025
**Status**: 100% Complete

### Completed Tasks

#### 1. Repository Setup ✅
- Created `xivdyetools-core` repository
- Configured TypeScript with strict mode and ESM
- Set up Vitest testing framework
- Added comprehensive .gitignore

**Files Created:**
- `package.json` - Package configuration
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration
- `.gitignore` - Git ignore rules (includes .env)
- `.env` - Secure npm token storage

#### 2. Service Extraction ✅

**ColorService** - 100% Reusable (No Changes)
- Copied from `src/services/color-service.ts`
- All 20+ color conversion methods
- Colorblindness simulation (Brettel 1997)
- Zero browser dependencies

**DyeService** - 95% Reusable (Minor Changes)
- Removed singleton pattern
- Added constructor dependency injection
- Changed from `export class DyeService` singleton to `new DyeService(dyeDatabase)`
- Supports both Node.js and browser environments

**APIService** - 60% Reusable (Significant Refactoring)
- Replaced browser `fetch` with environment-agnostic implementation
- Removed localStorage dependency
- Added pluggable cache backend interface (`ICacheBackend`)
- Implemented `MemoryCacheBackend` (default)
- Ready for Redis integration in Discord bot

#### 3. Supporting Code ✅
- **Types** (`src/types/index.ts`) - All TypeScript interfaces
- **Constants** (`src/constants/index.ts`) - Color theory constants, API config
- **Utils** (`src/utils/index.ts`) - Validation, math helpers, retry logic
- **Dye Database** (`src/data/colors_xiv.json`) - 136 FFXIV dyes

#### 4. Testing ✅
- **38 tests passing** (100% success rate)
- ColorService: Hex/RGB/HSV conversions, colorblindness simulation
- DyeService: Database access, search, harmony generation
- APIService: Cache operations
- Utilities: Validation, math, async helpers

#### 5. Build & Publishing ✅
- TypeScript compilation to `dist/` with source maps
- Generated `.d.ts` type definitions
- Package size: 37.7 KB (gzipped)
- Published to npm: **v1.0.2** (latest)
- Zero security vulnerabilities (upgraded vitest 1.0.4 → 4.0.13)

#### 6. Security ✅
- Fixed 4 moderate severity vulnerabilities
- Added .env to .gitignore for secure token storage
- Set up npm granular access token (90-day expiration)
- Package ready for CI/CD automation

### Links
- **npm Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/xivdyetools-core
- **GitHub Repo**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools-core
- **Version**: 1.0.2
- **Downloads**: Available to public

### Installation
```bash
npm install xivdyetools-core
```

### Usage Example
```typescript
import { DyeService, ColorService, dyeDatabase } from 'xivdyetools-core';

const dyeService = new DyeService(dyeDatabase);
const closestDye = dyeService.findClosestDye('#FF6B6B');
console.log(closestDye.name); // "Coral Pink"
```

---

## ⏳ Phase 2: Discord Bot Foundation (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Decision Point: New vs Existing Bot

**Option A: Build New Bot (Recommended by Planning Docs)**
- Node.js + discord.js v14
- Follows architecture in `docs/discord-bot/ARCHITECTURE.md`
- Deploy to Fly.io or Railway
- Full control over implementation

**Option B: Improve Existing Bot**
- Located at `../XIVDyeTools-discord`
- Cloudflare Workers-based
- Different architecture than planning docs
- Could integrate `xivdyetools-core` package

### Pending Tasks

1. ⏳ Review existing `XIVDyeTools-discord` bot
2. ⏳ Decide on approach (new vs existing)
3. ⏳ Create bot repository structure
4. ⏳ Install dependencies (discord.js, sharp, canvas, ioredis)
5. ⏳ Set up Discord application and bot token
6. ⏳ Implement command registration system
7. ⏳ Create embed builder utilities
8. ⏳ Set up Redis caching layer
9. ⏳ Implement rate limiting (10 commands/min per user)
10. ⏳ Add error handling and logging

### Expected Deliverables
- Bot repository with package.json
- Discord.js client setup
- Basic slash command infrastructure
- Redis connection and caching
- Error handling middleware

---

## ⏳ Phase 3: Command Implementations (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1-2 weeks
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Commands to Implement

1. `/harmony` - Color harmony generation
   - Parameters: base_color (hex), type (triadic/complementary/etc)
   - Output: Embed + color wheel image

2. `/match` - Hex color matching
   - Parameters: color (hex)
   - Output: Closest dye with distance metric

3. `/match_image` - Image upload color extraction
   - Parameters: attachment (image), region (optional)
   - Output: Extracted color + closest dye

4. `/comparison` - Dye comparison
   - Parameters: dye1, dye2, dye3, dye4 (optional)
   - Output: Comparison table + HSV chart

5. `/mixer` - Color gradient interpolation
   - Parameters: start_color, end_color, steps
   - Output: Gradient image with intermediate dyes

6. `/accessibility` - Colorblind simulation
   - Parameters: dye, vision_type (optional)
   - Output: Swatch grid showing normal + simulations

---

## ⏳ Phase 4: Image Rendering System (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Renderers to Build

1. **ColorWheelRenderer** - 400×400px wheel
   - 60-segment color wheel
   - Harmony indicators (lines/dots)
   - Base color highlight

2. **GradientRenderer** - 600×100px gradient
   - Horizontal color gradient
   - Intermediate color labels
   - Dye name annotations

3. **SwatchGridRenderer** - Variable size
   - Normal vision + 4 colorblind simulations
   - Grid layout with labels
   - Color hex values

4. **ComparisonChartRenderer** - 500×500px scatter plot
   - HSV color space visualization
   - Dye positioning by hue/saturation
   - Legend and axis labels

---

## ⏳ Phase 5: Testing & Optimization (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Testing Requirements

1. **Unit Tests**
   - Command parameter validation
   - Embed generation
   - Image rendering output

2. **Integration Tests**
   - End-to-end command execution
   - Discord API interactions
   - Redis caching behavior

3. **Parity Tests** (Critical!)
   - Ensure bot matches web app results
   - Compare harmony generation algorithms
   - Verify colorblind simulation accuracy

4. **Performance Tests**
   - Response time <500ms (no pricing)
   - Response time <2s (with pricing)
   - Image render time <200ms
   - 100+ concurrent users

---

## ⏳ Phase 6: Deployment & Monitoring (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Infrastructure Setup

1. **Docker Configuration**
   - Multi-stage build (builder + production)
   - Alpine base image
   - Native dependencies (cairo, jpeg, pango)

2. **Hosting Platform** (Choose One)
   - Fly.io (recommended, $0-5/month)
   - Railway ($5/month)
   - DigitalOcean ($6/month)

3. **Redis Setup**
   - Upstash free tier (256 MB)
   - Or Railway built-in Redis

4. **CI/CD Pipeline**
   - GitHub Actions workflow
   - Automated tests on PR
   - Deploy on main branch push

5. **Monitoring**
   - Health check endpoint
   - Discord webhook for errors
   - Uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot)

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Phase 1 (Core Package) ✅
- [x] Package published to npm
- [x] Zero security vulnerabilities
- [x] 38 tests passing (100%)
- [x] TypeScript strict mode
- [x] Comprehensive documentation

### Phase 2-6 (Discord Bot) ⏳
- [ ] 6 slash commands implemented
- [ ] Response time <500ms (95th percentile)
- [ ] Image rendering <200ms
- [ ] Zero downtime deployments
- [ ] 99.5% uptime
- [ ] <512 MB memory usage

---

## 📈 Timeline Summary

| Phase | Duration | Status | Completion |
|-------|----------|--------|------------|
| **Phase 1: Core Package** | Week 1-2 | ✅ Complete | 100% |
| **Phase 2: Bot Foundation** | Week 2-3 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 3: Commands** | Week 3-4 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 4: Image Rendering** | Week 4-5 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 5: Testing** | Week 5-6 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 6: Deployment** | Week 6 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |

**Overall Progress**: 18% (1 of 6 phases complete)

---

## 🔗 Important Links

### Documentation
- [README](./README.md) - Overview and quick start
- [ARCHITECTURE](./ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design
- [COMMANDS](./COMMANDS.md) - Command specifications
- [RENDERING](./RENDERING.md) - Image generation
- [DEPLOYMENT](./DEPLOYMENT.md) - Hosting and infrastructure
- [API_REFERENCE](./API_REFERENCE.md) - Core package API

### Repositories
- **Core Package**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools-core
- **Web App**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools
- **Discord Bot** (existing): `../XIVDyeTools-discord`
- **Discord Bot** (new): TBD

### Package
- **npm**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/xivdyetools-core
- **Version**: 1.0.2
- **Install**: `npm install xivdyetools-core`

---

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (Session 2)

1. **Review Existing Bot**
   - Explore `../XIVDyeTools-discord`
   - Check current functionality
   - Evaluate Cloudflare Workers architecture

2. **Make Decision**
   - Build new Node.js bot (follows planning docs)
   - Or improve existing Cloudflare Workers bot

3. **Update Web App** (Optional)
   - Replace inline services with `xivdyetools-core` package
   - Verify parity with existing implementation
   - Update tests

### Future Sessions

4. **Start Phase 2**
   - Create bot repository
   - Set up Discord application
   - Implement command infrastructure

5. **Continue Through Phases 3-6**
   - Command implementations
   - Image rendering
   - Testing and optimization
   - Deployment and monitoring

---

## 🏆 Achievements

- ✅ Published production-ready npm package
- ✅ Zero security vulnerabilities
- ✅ 38 comprehensive tests (100% pass rate)
- ✅ Environment-agnostic architecture
- ✅ Proper dependency injection (no singletons)
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Secure token management with .env
- ✅ Git repository with proper .gitignore

---

## 📝 Notes

### Lessons Learned (Phase 1)

1. **npm 2FA**: Granular tokens still require OTP if package has 2FA enabled
2. **Token Management**: Use .env files and .gitignore for secure storage
3. **Vitest Upgrade**: Security fix required major version bump (1.x → 4.x)
4. **ESM Compatibility**: Need `.js` extensions in imports for proper ES modules
5. **Automation Tokens**: Being deprecated by npm (as of September 2025)

### Recommendations for Phase 2

1. Start with existing bot review to understand current state
2. Consider cost/benefit of new vs existing implementation
3. Ensure parity tests between bot and web app from day 1
4. Set up CI/CD early to catch issues quickly
5. Use Redis caching from the start (not an afterthought)

---

**Status**: Ready to proceed to Phase 2! 🚀

Commit message:

docs: Document architectural decision for Discord bot
- Cloudflare Workers bot being deprecated
- New Node.js bot with discord.js v14
- Follows planning documentation architecture
- Will integrate xivdyetools-core from day 1

docs/discord-bot/PROGRESS.md, after:

# Discord Bot Implementation Progress

**Last Updated**: November 23, 2025
**Status**: Phase 1 Complete ✅ | Phase 2 Ready to Start

---

## 📊 Overall Progress: 18% Complete (Phase 1 of 6)

### Timeline
- **Phase 1**: ✅ Complete (Week 1-2)
- **Phase 2**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 2-3)
- **Phase 3**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 3-4)
- **Phase 4**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 4-5)
- **Phase 5**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 5-6)
- **Phase 6**: ⏳ Not Started (Week 6)

---

## ✅ Phase 1: Core Package Setup (COMPLETE)

**Duration**: November 22-23, 2025
**Status**: 100% Complete

### Completed Tasks

#### 1. Repository Setup ✅
- Created `xivdyetools-core` repository
- Configured TypeScript with strict mode and ESM
- Set up Vitest testing framework
- Added comprehensive .gitignore

**Files Created:**
- `package.json` - Package configuration
- `tsconfig.json` - TypeScript configuration
- `.gitignore` - Git ignore rules (includes .env)
- `.env` - Secure npm token storage

#### 2. Service Extraction ✅

**ColorService** - 100% Reusable (No Changes)
- Copied from `src/services/color-service.ts`
- All 20+ color conversion methods
- Colorblindness simulation (Brettel 1997)
- Zero browser dependencies

**DyeService** - 95% Reusable (Minor Changes)
- Removed singleton pattern
- Added constructor dependency injection
- Changed from `export class DyeService` singleton to `new DyeService(dyeDatabase)`
- Supports both Node.js and browser environments

**APIService** - 60% Reusable (Significant Refactoring)
- Replaced browser `fetch` with environment-agnostic implementation
- Removed localStorage dependency
- Added pluggable cache backend interface (`ICacheBackend`)
- Implemented `MemoryCacheBackend` (default)
- Ready for Redis integration in Discord bot

#### 3. Supporting Code ✅
- **Types** (`src/types/index.ts`) - All TypeScript interfaces
- **Constants** (`src/constants/index.ts`) - Color theory constants, API config
- **Utils** (`src/utils/index.ts`) - Validation, math helpers, retry logic
- **Dye Database** (`src/data/colors_xiv.json`) - 136 FFXIV dyes

#### 4. Testing ✅
- **38 tests passing** (100% success rate)
- ColorService: Hex/RGB/HSV conversions, colorblindness simulation
- DyeService: Database access, search, harmony generation
- APIService: Cache operations
- Utilities: Validation, math, async helpers

#### 5. Build & Publishing ✅
- TypeScript compilation to `dist/` with source maps
- Generated `.d.ts` type definitions
- Package size: 37.7 KB (gzipped)
- Published to npm: **v1.0.2** (latest)
- Zero security vulnerabilities (upgraded vitest 1.0.4 → 4.0.13)

#### 6. Security ✅
- Fixed 4 moderate severity vulnerabilities
- Added .env to .gitignore for secure token storage
- Set up npm granular access token (90-day expiration)
- Package ready for CI/CD automation

### Links
- **npm Package**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/xivdyetools-core
- **GitHub Repo**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools-core
- **Version**: 1.0.2
- **Downloads**: Available to public

### Installation
```bash
npm install xivdyetools-core
```

### Usage Example
```typescript
import { DyeService, ColorService, dyeDatabase } from 'xivdyetools-core';

const dyeService = new DyeService(dyeDatabase);
const closestDye = dyeService.findClosestDye('#FF6B6B');
console.log(closestDye.name); // "Coral Pink"
```

---

## ⏳ Phase 2: Discord Bot Foundation (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### ✅ Architectural Decision: New Node.js Bot

**Decision Made**: November 23, 2025

We will build a **new Node.js Discord bot** following the architecture documented in `docs/discord-bot/ARCHITECTURE.md`.

**Rationale:**
- Cloudflare Workers bot (`../XIVDyeTools-discord`) is being **deprecated**
- New bot will use discord.js v14 with proper slash command support
- Can integrate `xivdyetools-core` package from day 1
- Easier to implement canvas-based image rendering
- Better Redis caching support
- Deploy to Fly.io or Railway for cost-effective hosting

**What Happens to Existing Bot:**
- `../XIVDyeTools-discord` will remain for reference
- Not maintained or updated going forward
- New bot will replace all functionality

### Pending Tasks

1. ⏳ Review existing `XIVDyeTools-discord` bot
2. ⏳ Decide on approach (new vs existing)
3. ⏳ Create bot repository structure
4. ⏳ Install dependencies (discord.js, sharp, canvas, ioredis)
5. ⏳ Set up Discord application and bot token
6. ⏳ Implement command registration system
7. ⏳ Create embed builder utilities
8. ⏳ Set up Redis caching layer
9. ⏳ Implement rate limiting (10 commands/min per user)
10. ⏳ Add error handling and logging

### Expected Deliverables
- Bot repository with package.json
- Discord.js client setup
- Basic slash command infrastructure
- Redis connection and caching
- Error handling middleware

---

## ⏳ Phase 3: Command Implementations (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1-2 weeks
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Commands to Implement

1. `/harmony` - Color harmony generation
   - Parameters: base_color (hex), type (triadic/complementary/etc)
   - Output: Embed + color wheel image

2. `/match` - Hex color matching
   - Parameters: color (hex)
   - Output: Closest dye with distance metric

3. `/match_image` - Image upload color extraction
   - Parameters: attachment (image), region (optional)
   - Output: Extracted color + closest dye

4. `/comparison` - Dye comparison
   - Parameters: dye1, dye2, dye3, dye4 (optional)
   - Output: Comparison table + HSV chart

5. `/mixer` - Color gradient interpolation
   - Parameters: start_color, end_color, steps
   - Output: Gradient image with intermediate dyes

6. `/accessibility` - Colorblind simulation
   - Parameters: dye, vision_type (optional)
   - Output: Swatch grid showing normal + simulations

---

## ⏳ Phase 4: Image Rendering System (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Renderers to Build

1. **ColorWheelRenderer** - 400×400px wheel
   - 60-segment color wheel
   - Harmony indicators (lines/dots)
   - Base color highlight

2. **GradientRenderer** - 600×100px gradient
   - Horizontal color gradient
   - Intermediate color labels
   - Dye name annotations

3. **SwatchGridRenderer** - Variable size
   - Normal vision + 4 colorblind simulations
   - Grid layout with labels
   - Color hex values

4. **ComparisonChartRenderer** - 500×500px scatter plot
   - HSV color space visualization
   - Dye positioning by hue/saturation
   - Legend and axis labels

---

## ⏳ Phase 5: Testing & Optimization (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Testing Requirements

1. **Unit Tests**
   - Command parameter validation
   - Embed generation
   - Image rendering output

2. **Integration Tests**
   - End-to-end command execution
   - Discord API interactions
   - Redis caching behavior

3. **Parity Tests** (Critical!)
   - Ensure bot matches web app results
   - Compare harmony generation algorithms
   - Verify colorblind simulation accuracy

4. **Performance Tests**
   - Response time <500ms (no pricing)
   - Response time <2s (with pricing)
   - Image render time <200ms
   - 100+ concurrent users

---

## ⏳ Phase 6: Deployment & Monitoring (NOT STARTED)

**Estimated Duration**: 1 week
**Status**: 0% Complete

### Infrastructure Setup

1. **Docker Configuration**
   - Multi-stage build (builder + production)
   - Alpine base image
   - Native dependencies (cairo, jpeg, pango)

2. **Hosting Platform** (Choose One)
   - Fly.io (recommended, $0-5/month)
   - Railway ($5/month)
   - DigitalOcean ($6/month)

3. **Redis Setup**
   - Upstash free tier (256 MB)
   - Or Railway built-in Redis

4. **CI/CD Pipeline**
   - GitHub Actions workflow
   - Automated tests on PR
   - Deploy on main branch push

5. **Monitoring**
   - Health check endpoint
   - Discord webhook for errors
   - Uptime monitoring (UptimeRobot)

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Phase 1 (Core Package) ✅
- [x] Package published to npm
- [x] Zero security vulnerabilities
- [x] 38 tests passing (100%)
- [x] TypeScript strict mode
- [x] Comprehensive documentation

### Phase 2-6 (Discord Bot) ⏳
- [ ] 6 slash commands implemented
- [ ] Response time <500ms (95th percentile)
- [ ] Image rendering <200ms
- [ ] Zero downtime deployments
- [ ] 99.5% uptime
- [ ] <512 MB memory usage

---

## 📈 Timeline Summary

| Phase | Duration | Status | Completion |
|-------|----------|--------|------------|
| **Phase 1: Core Package** | Week 1-2 | ✅ Complete | 100% |
| **Phase 2: Bot Foundation** | Week 2-3 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 3: Commands** | Week 3-4 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 4: Image Rendering** | Week 4-5 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 5: Testing** | Week 5-6 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |
| **Phase 6: Deployment** | Week 6 | ⏳ Pending | 0% |

**Overall Progress**: 18% (1 of 6 phases complete)

---

## 🔗 Important Links

### Documentation
- [README](./README.md) - Overview and quick start
- [ARCHITECTURE](./ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design
- [COMMANDS](./COMMANDS.md) - Command specifications
- [RENDERING](./RENDERING.md) - Image generation
- [DEPLOYMENT](./DEPLOYMENT.md) - Hosting and infrastructure
- [API_REFERENCE](./API_REFERENCE.md) - Core package API

### Repositories
- **Core Package**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools-core
- **Web App**: https://github.com/FlashGalatine/xivdyetools
- **Discord Bot** (existing): `../XIVDyeTools-discord`
- **Discord Bot** (new): TBD

### Package
- **npm**: https://www.npmjs.com/package/xivdyetools-core
- **Version**: 1.0.2
- **Install**: `npm install xivdyetools-core`

---

## 🚀 Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (Session 2)

1. **Review Existing Bot**
   - Explore `../XIVDyeTools-discord`
   - Check current functionality
   - Evaluate Cloudflare Workers architecture

2. **Make Decision**
   - Build new Node.js bot (follows planning docs)
   - Or improve existing Cloudflare Workers bot

3. **Update Web App** (Optional)
   - Replace inline services with `xivdyetools-core` package
   - Verify parity with existing implementation
   - Update tests

### Future Sessions

4. **Start Phase 2**
   - Create bot repository
   - Set up Discord application
   - Implement command infrastructure

5. **Continue Through Phases 3-6**
   - Command implementations
   - Image rendering
   - Testing and optimization
   - Deployment and monitoring

---

## 🏆 Achievements

- ✅ Published production-ready npm package
- ✅ Zero security vulnerabilities
- ✅ 38 comprehensive tests (100% pass rate)
- ✅ Environment-agnostic architecture
- ✅ Proper dependency injection (no singletons)
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ Secure token management with .env
- ✅ Git repository with proper .gitignore

---

## 📝 Notes

### Lessons Learned (Phase 1)

1. **npm 2FA**: Granular tokens still require OTP if package has 2FA enabled
2. **Token Management**: Use .env files and .gitignore for secure storage
3. **Vitest Upgrade**: Security fix required major version bump (1.x → 4.x)
4. **ESM Compatibility**: Need `.js` extensions in imports for proper ES modules
5. **Automation Tokens**: Being deprecated by npm (as of September 2025)

### Recommendations for Phase 2

1. Start with existing bot review to understand current state
2. Consider cost/benefit of new vs existing implementation
3. Ensure parity tests between bot and web app from day 1
4. Set up CI/CD early to catch issues quickly
5. Use Redis caching from the start (not an afterthought)

---

**Status**: Ready to proceed to Phase 2! 🚀
